docs-2728-dwregex-duke (#1707)
mulesoft/docs-mule-runtime-3: modules/ROOT/pages/dataweave-cookbook-use-regex.adoc

= Use Regular Expressions in DataWeave
ifndef::env-site,env-github[]
include::_attributes.adoc[]
endif::[]
:keywords: studio, anypoint, transform, transformer, format, aggregate, rename, split, filter convert, json, metadata, dataweave, data weave, datamapper, dwl, dfl, dw, output structure, input structure, map, mapping, as

> Several DataWeave functions accept regular expressions as arguments. You can use them to return or check for matches. You can also construct regular expressions that incorporate DataWeave expressions that include functions and variables.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Several DataWeave functions accept regular expressions as arguments, which you can use to check for and return matches. You can also construct regular expressions that incorporate DataWeave expressions that include functions and variables.
```

Author: partially done. In some cases, you're just checking for whether there is a match, as in a Boolean (yes, no) vs. returning the matches.

//LINK TO DW 1.0 EXAMPLES:
include::partial$dataweave1-links.adoc[tag=dataweave1Examples]

[[ex01]]
== Return Matches from a String

> This example uses regular expressions in a number of DataWeave functions to returns matches to an input variable "mycompany.com".

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This example uses regular expressions in a number of DataWeave functions to return matches to an input variable "mycompany.com".
```

Author: done, thx

> * `contains` returns `true` based a regular expression that matches part of the  the input string.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* `contains` returns `true` based on a regular expression that matches part of the  the input string.
```

Author: done, thx

* `find` returns an array of indices that specify the matching locations in the input string. This function treats the input string as a string array.
* `match` returns an array of substrings that match the regular expression.
* `matches` returns `true` because the regular expression matches the input string exactly.
* `replace` returns a URL that changes `.com` in the input string to `.net`, based on the regular expression `\..*m`.

> * `scan` returns an subarray of comma-separated substrings to which the regular expression match.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* `scan` returns a subarray of comma-separated substrings that the regular expression matches.
```

Author: done, thx

> * `splitBy` splits an input string into an array substrings based on the `.` in the input.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* `splitBy` splits an input string into an array substrings based on the `.` in the input.
```
```suggestion
* `splitBy` splits an input string into an array of substrings based on the `.` in the input.
```

Author: done, thx
